In the scenario described, where a company wants to borrow money during 
the course of a year to expand its production facilities, knowing that 
the Federal Reserve plans to reduce the U.S. money supply during this 
time implies several things:  
  
1. In the IS-LM model, when the money supply (M^s) decreases, the LM 
curve rotates upwards (or shifting to the left).  
  
2. Similarly, a decrease in the money supply, does not necessarily 
imply a shift in the IS curve, so it would remain the same. This is 
because the money supply does not directly influence the relationship 
between interest rate (i) and income level (Y).  The money supply does 
affect the interest rate itself, but it does so by causing a change 
*along* the IS curve and not a shift in the curve.  
  
3. When plotting the IS and LM curves, we can see that rotating the LM 
curve upwards (or shifting it left, if you prefer) means that the 
equilibrium interest rate will necessarily increase. Intuitively, we can 
understand this increase in interest rate as the result of the Fed 
selling more bonds/securities to its member banks, which has the effect 
of decreasing the amount of money these banks have in reserve, which in 
turn allows banks to raise the interest rate to attract savings to 
compensate.   

4. Looking at the same graph, we also can see that the equilibrium GDP 
value would also decrease.  Following the increase in interest 
rate--which can also be thought of as the cost of borrowing 
money--investment would decrease.  Similarly, as the interest rate 
increases, the exchange rate would also increase, and net exports, in 
theory, would potentially suffer.  All of this would lead to lower 
income or GDP.  
  
5. All this being said, if the company decided to go ahead with its 
plans to take out loans during the current year, this could very much 
hurt profits knowing that the cost of borrowing this money would be 
higher and that economic activity in the form of GDP would be lower 
during this time.  As the Fed intends to return the money supply to it 
current path the following year, it would be better to wait and begin 
the project then. 
